So, guys, welcome back in this section of the course, we will going to understand the concept of
iterative mackerels.
So I try to macro's are iterators, which are used to iterate over standard data structures such as
link list trees or any other customized data structure.
So I try the macros are used to it with data structures such as limitless trees, etc., We need to
iterate over common data structures in our application many times, right.
So if you have written an application of good enough size, then you must have noticed that many times
you have to.
Repeatedly, I tripped over many data structures such as link list are trees or stacks or cubes so as
to implement the logic of the program.
So I the macros makes iteration of our data structure.
It's very easy and handy.
So let us take an example.
Suppose you want to iterate over our linked list and I'm sure that you must have been using a traditional
approach for iterating over a link list data structure.
So how do you usually I over a link list.
First of all, you get the head of the linked list.
That is the pointer to the first node of the linked list.
And then you trigger while loop or for loop and then you advance the pointer that points to the next
note of the link list and so on.
So you can see that this approach is a traditional approach to iterate over a link list.
Right.
Inside the while loop in this line, you process the current list and you implement whatever logic you
need to implement, right?
And in the next line, you just advance the pointer to point to the next notable linked list.
Right.
So this is the traditional approach.
And I'm sure until now you have been implementing this approach in order to iterate over a linked list.
But mark my word, once you start working professionally and start handling the production code, you
will not be allowed to iterate over the standard data structure, such as linked list using this traditional
approach.
We always have to use macros which allow us to iterate over a standard data structures so we can see
that on the right hand side I have written our macro, which is equivalent to the piece of code which
is on the left hand side.
And this matter will simply facilitate you to iterate over our linked list in the same way as using
traditional approach.
So you can see that I have written a macro.
The name of the macro is it read list begin and it accepts two pointers.
First is appointed to the linked list.
The second is the pointer to the node of a link list.
Right.
So you can see that the approach used on the right hand side that is iterating over a linked list using
macros is more readable.
It is not at all error prone.
You cannot commit any mistake if you use macros to iterate over the data structure.
It is handy and easy, right?
And soon, with complex data structures as the street or graphs, you cannot survive actually without
writing iterative macros, because here we are discussing a very simple example of iterating over a
linked list.
Maybe it could be the case that you may not realize the value of benefits that you will get by iterating
over data structures using iterative macros as compared to the traditional approach.
We will understand that how important it is to write iterative macros, to iterate over the new structures
when we will be discussing at, for example, in this section of the course.
So now let's discuss that, how you can implement iterative macros and first example that people are
going to discuss is the macro, which will facilitate iteration over a linked list.